This project is an evaluated assignment for the Risk management class of the Master in Data Mining and Business Intelligence at Complutense University of Madrid. 
The project is carried out with the help of SAS Enterprise Miner and a report is written in Spanish.
An overview of the project:

    1. Context: 
After 5 years of breaking into the Spanish market, the telco "MovilTV" has an important portfolio of almost one million customers. The plan is to continue growing the customer base in Spain but increasing the profitability of new registrations. To maintain the growth rate it is necessary not to harm the contractual conditions offered to new registrations, therefore all that remains is to optimize business processes. Among the business processes, the one that is mainly concerned with predicting the payment behavior of customers stands out, since a customer who does not pay you requires the company to pay a significant economic amount, MovilTV calculates that each non-payment is equivalent to the value generated by 20 new contracts. During these five years, MovilTV's risk policy has been based on the application of hard stop rules based on the experience of the risk department.

    2. Objectives:
In this task, we develop a predictive strategy that allows us to make offers only to customers who have a high propensity to pay, so the document tries to meet 3 main objectives: 
  ➢ Translate the model into a scorecard to be able to integrate it into the sales force. 
  ➢ Present the strategy followed and the expected results, together with the programs used. 
  ➢ Perform a blind test, scoring a set of data to decide who we would give credit to before integrating the scorecard into the company's production. For the development of this task we are going to use the SAS Enterprise Miner software, using the SEMMA analysis methodology.
  
    3. Resources:
The folder provided by MovilTV consists of 3 sets of data: 
  • TrainCS: Line data whose payment behavior is known. 
  • CS_Rejected: Database that has users who were not approved by the risk department to join the company. 
  • Scoring_CS: Blind data that you have to score and select which observations are selected. 
Apart from the data, we have a "Dictionary of Variables" that explains the meaning of the variables contained in the dataset.

  4. Process's stages:
The purpose of this work is to create a scorecard to select customers who have a high propensity to pay, therefore, the work is composed of the following main sections:
• Exploratory descriptive analysis of the data: Perform a formal and graphical exploration for the 3 data sets.
• Data transformation: Impute absent data, deal with outliers. 
• Data selection: Sampling, sifting through the data, and selecting the important variables to build the scorecard.
• Estimation of the first model and obtaining the preliminary scorecard.
• Inference of denials.
• Estimation of the final model and obtaining the final scorecard.
• Validation of the final scorecard and conclusion.

  
